[Music]
hi I'm Miriam from BBC good food and I'm
going to show you how to make Cola ham
the reason we're using Cola on this ham
is it's a little bit acidic so it's
gonna work on the outside of the meat
tenderizer a little bit and get all of
those flavors from our stock pot into
the meat so first thing I need to do is
prep our stock vegetables I've got a
carrot I'm just going to roughly chop
also the celery stick and one onion that
just needs to be peeled and quartered
[Music]
they're moving on to the meat I've got
some unsmoked gammon here so ham is what
we call the meat when it's cooked and
gammon is pork that's been brined or
cured in salt I've got two kilos in my
pan and I'm gonna add my stock
vegetables will sit a cinnamon stick
half a tablespoon of peppercorns and a
bay leaf I'm using unsmoked gammon
because we're adding so many other
layers of flavor in here so you don't
need that extra smoky flavor so into the
pot I'm going to add the cola you need
two litres for this and don't use the
diet version using coal is a really good
shortcut ingredient because it adds a
sweetness and acidity and a really
complex spicy citrus flavor you now want
to bring it to a boil and then reduce
the heat to a simmer
so that it cooks gently for about
two-and-a-half hours you want to make
sure that the gammon is covered at all
time so if it starts to dry out a little
bit put a bit of water on top
we don't want to keep the vegetables all
the stock they've done all of their work
for us while the ham cools I'm going to
mix the glaze what we've got going on in
the ham is it's a really nice salty
flavor then there's a lovely spicy edge
that we've got from boiling it in the
cola and now by making a glaze we're
gonna hit some really delicious like
toasty caramel flavor so in here I need
150 mils of maple syrup and then I want
two tablespoons of whole grain mustard
two tablespoons of red wine vinegar and
a pinch of ground cloves now I'm gonna
take the skin off the ham will just take
off a string first
[Music]
now I'm going to cut the skin away but
leaving a good layer of fat
I'm cutting the skin away because I'll
end up really tough and rubbery if we
leave it on and I want to expose the fat
which is going to make the hand really
lovely and moist and it will crisp up
when we put the glaze on as well once
you've taken all the skin off you need
to score it in a crisscross pattern and
that's gonna help it the extra crispy
it's going to look really nice and it'll
help get the glaze right in there don't
cut into the meat you just want to score
the fat
[Music]
and now I'm going to transfer it to a
roasting tin
[Music]
and then I'm gonna pour over half of the
glaze my ovens been preheating at 190
degrees 170 fan bake that for about 15
minutes and then put the rest the glaze
off
[Music]
so after a quarter of an hour I can put
the rest of the glaze on
and that goes back in the oven for 30
minutes halfway through I'm going to
baste it with all these lovely juices
ham is cooked and it smells amazing I'm
gonna do one final base thing and leave
it here just to rest for about 10
minutes then transfer it to a platter so
I can serve it you can serve it warm be
absolutely delicious or you can cool it
down and serve it cold
[Music]
you